Project Gutenberg's The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle
Title: The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
To Sherlock Holmes she is always _the_ woman. I have seldom heard him
Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description, but the locality appeared to be
“Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.”
“You have really got it!” he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either
“Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?” said she.
“What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and
superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for.” My
    really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
    possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,
Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a
 I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the
Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head
“Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,”
“What is the name of this obliging youth?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful
place where our red-headed client carried on his business. Sherlock
oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock
“I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes, “that you will play for
Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and
Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
“My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the
pilot boat. Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for
“Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?” asked Sherlock
I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still
Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.
the little mystery. I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half
brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:
are always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes’ cases.”
valise, rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmes was pacing
“Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancing from one to the other of
“I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes. “You may
opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I
It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned. He came back alone, for
Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it
the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.’”
When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases
remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man’s
child in the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the
Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a
“Tut! tut!” cried Sherlock Holmes. “You must act, man, or you are lost.
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of
“Have you never—” said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his
Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.
evening before I returned to Baker Street. Sherlock Holmes had not come
surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes. He made a slight motion
It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’ requests, for they
was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes. For two streets he
While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of
“Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady as we entered a well-lit
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question. “Frankly,
Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.
my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he
ourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force,
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly
I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning
“No, no. No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “Only one of those
Sherlock Holmes laughed. “Here is the foresight,” said he putting his
Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open,
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. “By Jove, Peterson!” said he,
Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from his
“My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other
Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. “In that case
measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes’ finger-tips upon the edge of the
during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock
Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed. He was
“Good-morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerily. “My name is Sherlock
expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one
Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed
“And what do you think of it all, Watson?” asked Sherlock Holmes,
It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his
Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and
to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there
friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.”
Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in
extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the
bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village. There were Sherlock
friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter
level with his own,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “I think that I
Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.
It was after five o’clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no
Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.
Sherlock Holmes. “It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr. Moulton,
to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted
Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
“There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes
“To the man who loves art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes,
Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning, dipping continuously
him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by 
