Assistant Keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities in the British Museum
Professor of Assyrian and Babylonian Archæology in
    architect's ideal--Comparison of Babylonian and Assyrian
    and its effect on Assyrian expansion--Independence
    state--Sargon and Merodach-baladan--Sennacherib's attempt
    policy--The Assyrian conquest of Egypt--Ashur-bani-pal and
    under the Sargonids--The policies of encouragement and
    and the Medes--The fall of Nineveh--Division of Assyrian
    41. Assyrian kelek on the Tigris; after La yard
    42. The Assyrian prototype of the gufa; from a bas-relief in
    43. Assyrian raft of logs on the Tigris; from a bas-relief
    60. The Assyrian army in Chaldea, 851 B.C.; from the Gates
    66-68. The weather-god and two goddesses from an Assyrian
the height of Assyrian power she continued to be the chief check upon
that empire's expansion, and the vacillating policy of the Sargonids
to Sargon of Akkad; but that marked the extreme limit of Babylonian
Arabian coast. The fact that two thousand years later Sargon of
that the Assyrian danger drew these ancient foes together for a time,
between Babylonian and Assyrian architectural design. Incidentally
close of the Assyrian domination, did not extend beyond the inner wall,
Assyrian king who deposed his brother Shamash-shum-ukîn from the throne
A: Sargon's quay-wall. B: Older moat-wall. C: Later moat-wall of
It is the work of Sargon of Assyria,[44] who states the object of
upon it."[45] The two walls of Sargon, which he here definitely names
the quay of Sargon,[46] which run from the old bank of the Euphrates
to the Ishtar Gate, precisely the two points mentioned in Sargon's
A: Sargon's quay-wall. B: Older moat-wall. O: Later moat-wall of
quay-walls, which succeeded that of Sargon. The three narrow walls
Sargon's earlier structure. That the less important Nimitti-Bêl is not
in view of Sargon's earlier reference.
excavations. The discovery of Sargon's inscriptions proved that in
precisely the same way as Sargon refers to the Euphrates. The simplest
restoration of Assyrian buildings, both secular and religious, great
foundation, after he had kept back the foot of the Assyrian from the
record that this Assyrian king made "bricks of E-sagila and
Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods, and during their first years of
as yet identified antedates the later Assyrian Empire, and that, as
Semitic Assyrians. In a stratum below the first Ishtar-temple (the
earliest Assyrian temple yet recovered, dating as it does from the
[Footnote 44: It was built by Sargon within the last five years of
B.C., he ruled Babylonia as an Assyrian province. He did not ascend the
It was certain that this Assyrian text was a copy of an earlier
some of the later Assyrian and Babylonian kings. Hitherto these have
later Assyrian synchronisms, and with the date of Burna-Buriash as
the Assyrians, can have differed in no essential feature from their
Sargon of Akkad had already marched in their raid to the Mediterranean
Assyrian inscription of the ninth century was found there, recording
early Assyrian ruler, we may assume that Assyria received her Semitic
research. The excavations on the site of Ashur, the earliest Assyrian
primitive Assyrian shrine, revealed a stratum in which were several
brutal character of the Assyrians of history, so striking a contrast to
Babylonian tradition as the most notable achievement of Sargon's reign;
Subartu; and one Assyrian astrologer, when reporting to his master an
Assyrian bas-relief, found at Kuyunjik, with representations of the
and it was probably not till the period of the later Assyrian empire
the Assyrian period, one being represented in enamelled brick on the
in Babylonia at this time, for its representation on the Assyrian
later Assyrian practice may well have had its origin at this period,
continued in use into the Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods. The
are those by Johns in "Babylonian and Assyrian Laws, Contracts
[Footnote 20: See Budge and King, "Guide to the Babylonian and Assyrian
derived from the Assyrian word for the same form of vessel, _kalaku,_
Assyrians at the height of their power succeeded in subduing a series
An Assyrian conquest of the country is here represented, amid all the
along with other booty, under a convoy of Assyrian soldiers.
Sea-Country at the time of the later Assyrian empire (see Fig. 45).]
for Sargon's invasion of Syria. In the late omen-literature, too, the
dynasty, is a check upon Assyrian expansion. But Egypt was losing her
always fixed upon her Assyrian frontier.
that Akhenaten has received an embassy from the Assyrians, whom he
increase of Assyrian power.[23] Apart from the defence of her frontier,
perhaps through the medium of Assyrian trading settlements, which were
contact with the Assyrian empire, their art never lost its individual
frontier from Assyrian encroachment, and the capital itself was soon to
treaty with Puzur-Ashur, the contemporary Assyrian king.[52] We may
to Burna-Buriash was maintained by the more powerful Assyrian king
due to his Assyrian sympathies that the Kassite party in Babylon
the young Kurigalzu did not fulfil the expectations of his Assyrian
extension of Assyrian territory was secured by Adad-nirari I., when he
serious disaster at Assyrian hands. Up to this time we have seen that
two Assyrian kings had defeated Babylonian armies, and had exacted
nobles against the Assyrian domination, restored the fortunes of his
and, when the Assyrians retreated, he followed them up and fought
the Assyrians. And the identification of the two royal names has been
called in question on the grounds that the Assyrian copy, in which
of Babylonian territory, he not only drove the Assyrians back, but
Assyrian power. A state of alternate conflict and temporary truce had
and lead Assyrian armies once more into Syrian territory. After
resistance were quite unable to withstand the Assyrian onslaught, and
into Ashur-nasir-pal's hands. In recording his victory the Assyrian
of attempting further opposition to Assyrian aims, and he was glad
In the upper register Assyrian foot-soldiers and cavalry are seen
Assyrians.
independence. The temporary decline of Assyrian power enabled
marks the beginning of the last period of Assyrian expansion, and
the wide areas she annexed. Former Assyrian kings had carried away the
had already been drained for the benefit of Assyrian coffers; and in
acknowledgment of Assyrian control. During the campaign he overran the
the Assyrian inroads, was aggravated by internal dissension. Sippar
empire, and her Tenth Dynasty is mainly composed of Assyrian rulers
Assyrian plans, for, after the elose of Shalmaneser's reign, when
Sargon's army had secured the capture of Samaria, he was obliged to
growth of Assyrian power. So Khumbanigash, the Elamite king, allying
Sargon and the Assyrian army before its walls. Merodach-baladan was
After the defeat of Shabaka and the Egyptians at Raphia, Sargon was
only the Assyrians, but also a new enemy, the Cimmerians, who now made
their appearance from the north and east. In fact, Sargon's conquest of
Sargon was able to turn his attention once more to Babylon, from
On Sargon's death in 705 B.C. the subject provinces of the empire
brought up at the Assyrian court. A rising, headed by Mushezib-Marduk,
Assyrian army from Nagitu, whither it had been conveyed by Sennacherib,
party, whose support his grandfather, Sargon, had secured.[43] In 668
already incorporated in the Assyrian empire, and, had he been able
significant of the detestation of Assyrian rule in the scattered
in 648 B.C. The Assyrian king then invaded Elam, and, capturing its
was protected by its river, then in flood, but the Assyrian army
always regarded the Assyrians as an upstart people, who had borrowed
in a material degree to reduce the power of the Assyrian army, already
had overrun the Assyrian empire, and her power was on the wane, we
[Footnote 12: Tiglath-pileser was the first Assyrian monarch, with the
possible exception of Shamshi-Adad III., to carry Assyrian arms to the
List and the fragmentary Assyrian Dynastic Chronicle with regard to the
[Footnote 34: He was an Assyrian general named Pulu, the leader of the
confiscated by the Assyrians. In the Frontispiece to this volume he is
Sargon's death formed a period of interregnum, though the Kings' List
had been recovered by Egypt and the Assyrian garrison massacred. On his
Assyrian control.]
Freed from her Assyrian oppressors, Babylon now renewed her youth, and
time to acknowledge Assyrian supremacy. But the sons of Ashur-bani-pal,
whose sole support, the Assyrian army, was now largely composed of
the Assyrians were doomed to disappear. The destruction of Urartu had
the Assyrian empire, pouring across it in resistless hordes. Assyria
intend to allow this portion of the Assyrian empire to fall to Egypt
With the passing of Assyrian power the political importance of
stopping-place; but, unlike the fall of the Assyrian empire, her
characterized its attitude under Assyrian rule; and this was due to the
a complete reversal of Assyrian methods. For the nationality of each
[Footnote 5: After throwing off the Assyrian yoke Egypt, under the
drawn from Babylonian and Assyrian sources has helped to elucidate
bulls which flanked the doorways of Assyrian and Persian palaces, and,
fifteen hundred years before the birth of Sargon I., who is supposed
the late Assyrian period, treat eclipses as possible on any day of
and 2 (Sonderabdruck, 16 pp.); see further, pp. 304, 308.]
measure from Assyrian sources, and, as the civilization of both countries was
